Black Holes: Black? Holes? Or Something Else Entirely?
	A black hole is a phenomenon of physics predicted to exist by Albert Einstein’s Theory of Relativity and mostly confirmed by research done by the great Stephen Hawking. The skinny of a black hole is that it is quite the opposite of skinny. Black holes are considered the most massive single objects in the known universe. A black hole is likely at least the densest object known. Their density approaches infinity. The conceptual infinite density is derived from the idea that a black hole exists as a singularity. A singularity is a singular point in spacetime that has no volume. A singularity can have quite large mass. Since density equals mass divided by volume, the density of a true singularity would be undefined. As a result, most physicists don’t believe black holes have zero volume. Instead, it is likely that black holes occupy some volume of space. With current technology, it is impossible to determine what a black hole looks like; a black hole does not emit light and thus, information.
	What makes a black hole black? What does it mean to be black in a cosmic definition of the word? Black or dark are terms for cosmological objects that don’t emit or reflect light. Light, or electromagnetic radiation, makes up most of the energy we detect in the universe. Even the matter in the universe that we can investigate normally emits or reflects some form of radiation. Black holes, however, do not. Black holes are gargantuan. In nature, they tend to range from around ten times the mass of our sun to billions of solar masses. The gravity of an object that large, combined with the lack of a nuclear engine burning in a star result in a gravitational acceleration that exceeds the speed of light (making it dark or black, the absence of light). The highest mass, visible objects in the universe are stars. Stars maintain their shape under their own immense gravitational pressure by exerting outward pressure from their core through nuclear fusion. Nuclear fusion is when atoms of a less heavy element combine to make a heavier element. In most stars, Hydrogen, the most abundant form of matter in the universe, fuses to form Helium. Hydrogen is one atomic mass unit and Helium is two atomic mass units. Eventually, most of the Hydrogen in a star is converted to Helium. There are additional layers of fusion that happens in a star, but at some point in the life cycle of the star there is not enough energy disbursed from fusion. A black hole, on the other hand, has no fusion reaction giving it volume. A black hole is sufficiently massive to be considered collapsed. This amount of mass and density is what leads to the high gravitational acceleration that even light cannot escape; hence: the black hole is indeed black.
	Is a black hole a hole? A black hole is a massive and dense object in the universe. Nothing can escape a black hole, but the word “hole” is misleading. A hole in the ground on Earth can have a higher gravitational pressure since it is closer to more of the mass of the Earth. The object that is a black hole creates a similar hole in the fabric of spacetime. Spacetime is what the universe is made up of and contains all matter and energy inside it. Spacetime is also curved in four dimensions by mass. The curvature of spacetime due to mass is called gravity. In this way, a black hole creates a hole in spacetime that nothing can escape. The black hole is still just a highly massive and dense object. The curved space around the black hole has gradual intensity. Every black hole has a radius around it in all four dimensions that light is not fast enough to escape. This radius is called the event horizon. From the event horizon and inward into the black hole, no information can be collected. Anything within the radius around the black hole is lost. In the way that a black hole is a dip in spacetime, it is a four-dimensional hole that leads toward the nearly infinitely dense object at the center. There are common misconceptions that a black hole leads to a tunnel that ends up elsewhere in space or time. Dr. Stephen Hawking contributed greatly to the math and science that rejects the tunnel claim. He coined the term, “Hawking Radiation,” which is an energy field around the event horizon of a black hole. This energy field slowly radiates away in an exact ratio of loss of mass over time of any given black hole. It is not a result of the black hole emitting any energy, but quantum fluctuations of virtual particles inside and outside of the black hole.
	What really is a black hole? Most black holes represent the last stage of the life cycle of a highly massive star. Once a star runs out of lighter elements to fuse into heavier elements, it will lose enough energy to collapse under its own gravitational pressure. The star collapses into a nearly zero volume object known as a black hole. The gravity is so strong within the event horizon radius that light is not fast enough to escape. The gravity is so strong that spacetime is curved so extremely that space and time effectively cease at the event horizon. Black holes can gain mass as other objects and light approach and enter the event horizon. Scientists have been able to determine the existence of black holes through Albert Einstein’s relativistic mathematics. We are also able to detect black holes in nature from gravitational waves (ripples in the fabric of spacetime so large that they can be detected across long distances) and the gravitational effect black holes have on other objects. All known black holes spin, much like other massive objects (stars, planets, etc.). They slowly (on a timescale of trillions of years) radiate away Hawking Radiation through quantum fluctuations. We can determine that they are not a puncture through spacetime and that they do not have an infinite existence based on their slow decay. Black holes are an incredible result of natural gravitational supremacy.