Trapped Ion Quantum Supremacy
	You may have heard the term, “Quantum Supremacy,” (originally coined by John Preskill in 2012) thrown around in recent years. If you have been watching science and technology closely, you might even know that this relates to quantum computing and its power in comparison to classical computing. Quantum computing is an industry still in its infancy. It uses quantum mechanics1 to complete complex mathematical calculations. Its supremacy will be achieved when it can complete a given task better than a classical computer. Companies like Google, IBM, Intel, and Microsoft are just a few that are working on quantum supremacy. While they all use superconducting2 materials to complete their calculations, trapped ions are the true future of quantum computing and the race to supremacy.
Classical computers are what most of us are familiar with. You hold a classical computer in your smart phone. You probably use a classical computer at work if you are employed at an office. Your desktop computer, laptop, tablet, and smart phone can all be considered classical computers. They all use silicon3 based electric circuits called transistors4. The defining feature of a classical computer and transistors is that they compute with binary5 numbers. In this context, binary refers to the “state” of the transistor. The state can either be on, with electricity running through, or off, with no electricity running through. The state of electricity is then represented by a one (when powered) and a zero (when not powered) mathematically. These ones and zeros are what we call “bits.”
	People were the original computers. Throughout most of recorded history, people were computing geometry, trade transactions, travel distances, and so forth by hand or mind. The electronic computer industry has only been around since the end of World War II. Skip to the 1970s, and the first personal computers or “PCs” (term coined by Ed Roberts around 1974) were commercially available. Since then, every commercially available computer was considered a classical, or binary, computer. These computers affect your life every day. Whether or not you own a PC, some part of your job, school, entertainment, or other part of daily life is definitely affected. Computers are in our cars, TVs, restaurants, and even grocery stores.
	Classical computers continue to double in processing capabilities every 2 years or so, as predicted per Moore’s Law6. These types of computers will be the dominating force driving technology, medicine, entertainment, business, education, and so on for the next potential decade or two. However, computer scientists have an innate desire to push the capabilities of modern computers. There is a natural evolution expected in the industry. Classical computers have limitations with probabilistic calculations. This limitation means that predictive mathematics and formulas that deal with the nature of physics are virtually impossible to compute. Artificial intelligence, chemical engineering, and finance will all be affected by this limitation, and require the next evolution of computing power: quantum.
Quantum computing differs from classical computing in a key way. Instead of binary bits which have two states (on or off), quantum computers use qubits. Qubits are not based on transistors. Instead, qubits are derived from fundamental particles of matter, like atoms or even just their electrons. Atoms and electrons have special properties like spin7 that help physicists use them like bits. Unlike bits, however, qubits are able to occupy two states simultaneously. If a bit is either on or off and represented by either a one or zero, a qubit can be both at the same time in a manner of speaking. Then qubits are chained together through entanglement8 and tasked to perform an algorithm9. Through the qubits’ superstate10 and entanglement, once the output is read from the algorithm, the complex mathematics is completed nearly instantaneously. That same mathematics, performed by a classical computer, may take days, months, years, or even millennia to complete.
 Most of the major players in quantum computing today use superconducting materials to develop their qubits. Companies like Google and IBM have built large vacuum chambers to house the architecture of their supercooled, superconducting materials to develop rudimentary quantum computers. These companies build and rebuild the set architecture, much like the silicon-based transistor system of classical computers. The quantum computers built by these companies require a huge amount of space and giant, engineered vacuum chambers. There is another way to entangle and process on qubits. IonQ, among other emerging companies, have been sequestering strings of ions11 in compact electrically charged “traps.” IonQ uses negatively charged traps to attract their positive ions. They are able to trap and control a string of 32 ions, which is considered a 32-qubit quantum computer. While Google and IBM claim they are approaching 100 qubits or more, IonQ’s humble 32 have greater fidelity12.
Errors are a common problem in computer science. There are millions of lines of code that go into any software system. Human error is bound to propagate through any system. With quantum computing, even a single error is catastrophic to a system’s functioning. Trapped ions limit the amount of material the quantum system has to interact with. While superconductors are build from large matrices of chemical compounds, trapped ions are built with electromagnetic generators that produce electromagnetic fields. Every vector13 in a field is identical. Every ion in the trap is identical. There is no conceivable difference from one atom of a particular element to another. Same goes for electrons. Since every time the ion chain is initiated, there will be identical components of the system (in the form of the electromagnetic field and the trapped ions), there is very low likelihood of any variation from one computation to the next. Contrasted with superconducting materials that may have impurities, may warp or degrade over time (due to extreme temperatures, physical events like earthquakes, human interaction, etc.), trapped ions are a purer system. As a result, trapped ion quantum computers need less resources for error correction and can demonstrate repeatable experiments.
The superconducting material approach has the most financial backing at the moment. Not only are companies using superconducting materials to build quantum computers at a huge advantage since they can use existing technology to assist them, but they also happen to be some of the most profitable and resource heavy companies on Earth. Trapped ion quantum computing is cheaper and easier to scale, rebuild, redesign, and produce. While superconducting materials are expensive to build and maintain, ion traps cost very little. Trapped ion quantum computers will certainly bring quantum computing in academia faster than ever.
Superconductors have benefited from the familiarity of their architecture; they use similar structures as classical computers. This familiarity may be an advantage for investors and “old money,” but it is only a disadvantage to the philosophy of progress. Trapping ions in an electric field is the spiritual successor to quantum mechanics. Physicists have been trying to manipulate the building blocks of nature such as atoms, electrons, photons, and all manner of infinitesimally small quanta for decades. Trapped ion quantum computing brings the best of business, academics, physicists, chemists, computer scientists, and many more to the table as the ultimate accessible form of the next evolution of computing. 
	
 
References:
•	Aune, Sean P., “Who Coined The Term ‘Personal Computer’?”, TechnoBuffalo, https://www.technobuffalo.com/who-coined-the-term-personal-computer, 2010.
•	Gibney, Elizabeth, “Quantum computer race intensifies as alternative technology gains steam,” Nature, https://www.nature.com/articles/d41586-020-03237-w, 2020.
•	Linke, Norbert M.; Maslov, Dmitri, Roetteler, Martin; Debnath, Shantanu; Figgatt, Caroline; Landsman, Kevin A.; Wright, Kenneth; Monroe, Christopher, “Experimental comparison of two quantum computing architectures,” PNAS, https://www.pnas.org/content/114/13/3305, 2017.
•	Maksymov, Andrii; Niroula, Pradeep; Nam, Yunseong, “Optimal calibration of gates in trapped-ion quantum computers,” Quantum Science and Technology, Volume 6, Number 3, https://iopscience.iop.org/article/10.1088/2058-9565/abf718, 2021.
•	Maslov, Dmitri; Nam, Yunseong; Kim, Jungsang, “An Outlook for Quantum Computing [Point of View],” Proceedings of the IEEE ( Volume: 107, Issue: 1, Jan. 2019), https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/8591980, 2019.
•	Preskill, John, “Quantum Computing and the Entanglement Frontier,” https://arxiv.org/pdf/1203.5813.pdf, 2012.
•	Russel, John, “IonQ Is First Quantum Startup to Go Public; Will It be First to Deliver Profits?”, HPC Wire, https://www.hpcwire.com/2021/11/03/ionq-is-first-quantum-startup-to-go-public-will-it-be-first-to-deliver-profits/, 2021.
•	Smith-Goodson , Paul, “Quantum Computer Battle Royale: Upstart Ions Versus Old Guard Superconductors,” Forbes, https://www.forbes.com/sites/moorinsights/2019/09/16/quantum-computer-battle-royale-upstart-ions-versus-old-guard-superconductors/?sh=437560c72cb8
•	Timmer, John, “Trapped-ion quantum computer sets new mark for quantum volume,” Ars Technica, https://arstechnica.com/science/2020/10/trapped-ion-quantum-computer-sets-new-mark-for-quantum-volume/, 2020.
•	Zialcita, Paolo, “Google Claims To Achieve Quantum Supremacy — IBM Pushes Back,” NPR, https://www.npr.org/2019/10/23/772710977/google-claims-to-achieve-quantum-supremacy-ibm-pushes-back, 2019.

Glossary:
1.	Quantum Mechanics - the branch of mechanics that deals with the mathematical description of the motion and interaction of subatomic particles, incorporating the concepts of quantization of energy, wave-particle duality, the uncertainty principle, and the correspondence principle.
2.	Superconductor - a substance capable of becoming superconducting at sufficiently low temperatures.
3.	Silicon - the chemical element of atomic number 14, a nonmetal with semiconducting properties, used in making electronic circuits. Pure silicon exists in a shiny dark gray crystalline form and as an amorphous powder.
4.	Transistor - a semiconductor device with three connections, capable of amplification in addition to rectification.
5.	Binary - elating to, using, or expressed in a system of numerical notation that has 2 rather than 10 as a base.
6.	Moore’s Law - the principle that the speed and capability of computers can be expected to double every two years, as a result of increases in the number of transistors a microchip can contain.
7.	Spin - the intrinsic angular momentum of a subatomic particle.
8.	[Quantum] Entanglement - the phenomenon whereby a pair of particles are generated in such a way that the individual quantum states of each are indefinite until measured, and the act of measuring one determines the result of measuring the other, even when at a distance from each other.
9.	Algorithm - a process or set of rules to be followed in calculations or other problem-solving operations, especially by a computer.
10.	Superstate (corrected to superposition) - The superposition principle is the idea that a system is in all possible states at the same time, until it is measured. http://physics.gmu.edu/~dmaria/590%20Web%20Page/public_html/qm_topics/superposition/superposition.html
11.	Ion - an atom or molecule with a net electric charge due to the loss or gain of one or more electrons.
12.	Fidelity - the degree of exactness with which something is copied or reproduced.
13.	Vector - a quantity having direction as well as magnitude, especially as determining the position of one point in space relative to another.
All definitions from Oxford Languages: https://languages.oup.com/google-dictionary-en/
